---
title: 'Safety?'
description: "As a woman? Ha."
layout: post
author: "AE"
tags:
- thoughts
- womanhood?
---

Is one of the defining features of womanhooe worrying for your personal safety, whether in or outside your home? Yes, it seems so, based on personal and other women's experiences. As children, women are always told to be watchful, yielding, and quiet, especially to men. From an objective view, there **is** some truth to it; men have larger frames, thicker bones, greater physical strength, and testosterone, all of which can lead to a potent cocktail for (un)intentional violence. Women, on the other hand, are physically weaker than men. I don't have to pull out research papers to know, on average, that this is true. Additionally, more men overwhelmingly commit violent crimes than women. [^1] [^2] [^3]

Though these are all rational reasons to preach to naïve daughters who know nothing about the world, it is an enormous stain on society. Has society as a whole yet to evolve on the basic rights of women? The simple fact that women's rights is deemed separately as **women's rights** instead of **human rights** speaks volumes on how society views women as a whole. Not **human rights**, because we're not **really** considered human... and if so, only for the lecherous benefit for men. So, is it still confounding that society teaches women to live in perpetual fear and suspicion?  

"DON'T DRESS LIKE A SLUT, BECAUSE YOU'LL GET RAPED" is something all women hear as children. Here, bodily autonomy is ignored for the comfort of violent, unstable men. Why should women give up their rights to their body just so they **might** not get raped? Some men say they would love to be ogled by women (any, of course, that are young and attractive, of course...) and that they should appreciate the attention they get, but have they ever been in such a vulnerable position where they may contemplate the stupidity of their statement from a point of empathy and self-awareness? I'm afraid the answer is a resounding **no**. From society's response alone, men are allowed to be sluts.  

As seen in the links, men do commit violent crimes more often than women, though men are largely the victims in homicides, assaults, and muggings. Anything I have said above does not cancel how I feel about men's safety. Everyone should feel and be safe, but the way we handle women's victimizations makes no sense. Even if women do everything and do the opposite of everything they've been told not to do, it takes one act against them to break everything.  Be more intimidating. Don't look at them. Walk away. It's bullshit. As if walking away helps.  




[^1]: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/85f0033m/2010024/part-partie1-eng.htm#h2_6
[^2]: https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2014/crime-in-the-u.s.-2014/persons-arrested/main
[^3]: Just posting those two links because I'm sure there's some snivelly man who thinks I'm lying. Something something facts.
